docs/docs/contributing/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 0
---
# Welcome Contributors

Hi there! Thank you for your interest in contributing to LangChain.
As an open-source project in a fast developing field, we are extremely open to contributions, whether they involve new features, improved infrastructure, better documentation, or bug fixes.

## Tutorials

More coming soon! We are working on tutorials to help you make your first contribution to the project.

- [**Make your first docs PR**](tutorials/docs.mdx)

## How-to Guides

- [**Documentation**](how_to/documentation/index.mdx): Help improve our docs, including this one!
- [**Code**](how_to/code/index.mdx): Help us write code, fix bugs, or improve our infrastructure.
- [**Integrations**](how_to/integrations/index.mdx): Help us integrate with your favorite vendors and tools.
- [**Standard Tests**](how_to/integrations/standard_tests): Ensure your integration passes an expected set of tests.

## Reference

- [**Repository Structure**](reference/repo_structure.mdx): Understand the high level structure of the repository.
- [**Review Process**](reference/review_process.mdx): Learn about the review process for pull requests.
- [**Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)**](reference/faq.mdx): Get answers to common questions about contributing.

## Community

### 💭 GitHub Discussions

We have a [discussions](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/discussions) page where users can ask usage questions, discuss design decisions, and propose new features.

If you are able to help answer questions, please do so! This will allow the maintainers to spend more time focused on development and bug fixing.

### 🚩 GitHub Issues

Our [issues](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/issues) page is kept up to date with bugs, improvements, and feature requests.

There is a taxonomy of labels to help with sorting and discovery of issues of interest. Please use these to help organize issues.

If you start working on an issue, please assign it to yourself.

If you are adding an issue, please try to keep it focused on a single, modular bug/improvement/feature.
If two issues are related, or blocking, please link them rather than combining them.

We will try to keep these issues as up-to-date as possible, though
with the rapid rate of development in this field some may get out of date.
If you notice this happening, please let us know.

### 📢 Community Slack

We have a [community slack](https://www.langchain.com/join-community) where you can ask questions, get help, and discuss the project with other contributors and users.

### 🙋 Getting Help

Our goal is to have the simplest developer setup possible. Should you experience any difficulty getting setup, please
ask in [community slack](https://www.langchain.com/join-community) or open a [discussion on GitHub](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/discussions).

In a similar vein, we do enforce certain linting, formatting, and documentation standards in the codebase.
If you are finding these difficult (or even just annoying) to work with, feel free to ask in [community slack](https://www.langchain.com/join-community)!

Commit message:

docs: added a link to the taxonomy of labels in the contributing guide for easy access (#28719)
Thank you for contributing to LangChain!

- [ ] **PR title**: "package: description"
- Where "package" is whichever of langchain, community, core, etc. is
being modified. Use "docs: ..." for purely docs changes, "infra: ..."
for CI changes.
  - Example: "community: add foobar LLM"


- [ ] **PR message**: ***Delete this entire checklist*** and replace
with
- **Description:** Added a link to make it easier to organize github
issues for langchain.
- **Issue:** After reading that there was a taxonomy of labels I had to
figure out how to find it.
    - **Dependencies:** None
    - **Twitter handle:** None


- [ ] **Add tests and docs**: If you're adding a new integration, please
include
1. a test for the integration, preferably unit tests that do not rely on
network access,
2. an example notebook showing its use. It lives in
`docs/docs/integrations` directory.


- [ ] **Lint and test**: Run `make format`, `make lint` and `make test`
from the root of the package(s) you've modified. See contribution
guidelines for more: https://python.langchain.com/docs/contributing/

Additional guidelines:
- Make sure optional dependencies are imported within a function.
- Please do not add dependencies to pyproject.toml files (even optional
ones) unless they are required for unit tests.
- Most PRs should not touch more than one package.
- Changes should be backwards compatible.
- If you are adding something to community, do not re-import it in
langchain.

If no one reviews your PR within a few days, please @-mention one of
baskaryan, efriis, eyurtsev, ccurme, vbarda, hwchase17.

---------

Co-authored-by: Chester Curme <chester.curme@gmail.com>

docs/docs/contributing/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 0
---
# Welcome Contributors

Hi there! Thank you for your interest in contributing to LangChain.
As an open-source project in a fast developing field, we are extremely open to contributions, whether they involve new features, improved infrastructure, better documentation, or bug fixes.

## Tutorials

More coming soon! We are working on tutorials to help you make your first contribution to the project.

- [**Make your first docs PR**](tutorials/docs.mdx)

## How-to Guides

- [**Documentation**](how_to/documentation/index.mdx): Help improve our docs, including this one!
- [**Code**](how_to/code/index.mdx): Help us write code, fix bugs, or improve our infrastructure.
- [**Integrations**](how_to/integrations/index.mdx): Help us integrate with your favorite vendors and tools.
- [**Standard Tests**](how_to/integrations/standard_tests): Ensure your integration passes an expected set of tests.

## Reference

- [**Repository Structure**](reference/repo_structure.mdx): Understand the high level structure of the repository.
- [**Review Process**](reference/review_process.mdx): Learn about the review process for pull requests.
- [**Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)**](reference/faq.mdx): Get answers to common questions about contributing.

## Community

### 💭 GitHub Discussions

We have a [discussions](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/discussions) page where users can ask usage questions, discuss design decisions, and propose new features.

If you are able to help answer questions, please do so! This will allow the maintainers to spend more time focused on development and bug fixing.

### 🚩 GitHub Issues

Our [issues](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/issues) page is kept up to date with bugs, improvements, and feature requests.

There is a [taxonomy of labels](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/labels?sort=count-desc)
to help with sorting and discovery of issues of interest. Please use these to help
organize issues. Check out the [Help Wanted](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/labels/help%20wanted)
and [Good First Issue](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/labels/good%20first%20issue)
tags for recommendations.

If you start working on an issue, please assign it to yourself.

If you are adding an issue, please try to keep it focused on a single, modular bug/improvement/feature.
If two issues are related, or blocking, please link them rather than combining them.

We will try to keep these issues as up-to-date as possible, though
with the rapid rate of development in this field some may get out of date.
If you notice this happening, please let us know.

### 📢 Community Slack

We have a [community slack](https://www.langchain.com/join-community) where you can ask questions, get help, and discuss the project with other contributors and users.

### 🙋 Getting Help

Our goal is to have the simplest developer setup possible. Should you experience any difficulty getting setup, please
ask in [community slack](https://www.langchain.com/join-community) or open a [discussion on GitHub](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/discussions).

In a similar vein, we do enforce certain linting, formatting, and documentation standards in the codebase.
If you are finding these difficult (or even just annoying) to work with, feel free to ask in [community slack](https://www.langchain.com/join-community)!
