docs/docs/integrations/providers/naver.mdx, before:

# NAVER

All functionality related to `Naver`, including HyperCLOVA X models, particularly those accessible through `Naver Cloud` [CLOVA Studio](https://clovastudio.ncloud.com/).

> [Naver](https://navercorp.com/) is a global technology company with cutting-edge technologies and a diverse business portfolio including search, commerce, fintech, content, cloud, and AI.

> [Naver Cloud](https://www.navercloudcorp.com/lang/en/) is the cloud computing arm of Naver, a leading cloud service provider offering a comprehensive suite of cloud services to businesses through its [Naver Cloud Platform (NCP)](https://www.ncloud.com/).

Please refer to [NCP User Guide](https://guide.ncloud-docs.com/docs/clovastudio-overview) for more detailed instructions (also in Korean).

## Installation and Setup

- Get a CLOVA Studio API Key by [issuing it](https://api.ncloud-docs.com/docs/ai-naver-clovastudio-summary#API%ED%82%A4) and set it as an environment variable (`NCP_CLOVASTUDIO_API_KEY`).
    - If you are using a legacy API Key (that doesn't start with `nv-*` prefix), you might need to get an additional API Key by [creating your app](https://guide.ncloud-docs.com/docs/en/clovastudio-playground01#create-test-app) and set it as `NCP_APIGW_API_KEY`.

Naver integrations live in two packages:

- `langchain-naver-community`: a dedicated integration package for Naver. It is a community-maintained package and is not officially maintained by Naver or LangChain.
- `langchain-community`: a collection of [third-party integrations](https://python.langchain.com/docs/concepts/architecture/#langchain-community),
including Naver. **New features should be implemented in the dedicated `langchain-naver-community` package**.

```bash
pip install -U langchain-community langchain-naver-community
```

## Chat models

### ChatClovaX 

See a [usage example](/docs/integrations/chat/naver).

```python
from langchain_community.chat_models import ChatClovaX
```

## Embedding models

### ClovaXEmbeddings

See a [usage example](/docs/integrations/text_embedding/naver).

```python
from langchain_community.embeddings import ClovaXEmbeddings
```

## Tools

### Naver Search

The Naver Search integration allows your LangChain applications to retrieve information from Naver's search engine. This is particularly useful for Korean language queries and getting up-to-date information about Korean topics.

To use the Naver Search tools, you need to:

1. Sign in to the [Naver Developers portal](https://developers.naver.com/main/)
2. Create a new application and enable the Search API
3. Obtain your **NAVER_CLIENT_ID** and **NAVER_CLIENT_SECRET** from the "Application List" section
4. Set these as environment variables in your application

```python
from langchain_naver_community.tool import NaverSearchResults
from langchain_naver_community.utils import NaverSearchAPIWrapper

# Set up the search wrapper
search = NaverSearchAPIWrapper()

# Create a tool
tool = NaverSearchResults(api_wrapper=search)
```

See a [usage example](/docs/integrations/tools/naver_search) for more details.

### Specialized Search Tools

The package also provides specialized search tools for different types of content:

```python
from langchain_naver_community.tool import NaverNewsSearch  # For news articles
from langchain_naver_community.tool import NaverBlogSearch  # For blog posts
from langchain_naver_community.tool import NaverImageSearch  # For images
```

Each of these can be used within LangChain agents to provide more targeted search capabilities.

Commit message:

community: update Naver integration to use langchain-naver package and improve documentation (#30956)
## **Description:** 
This PR was requested after the `langchain-naver` partner-managed
packages were completed.
We build our package as requested in [this
comment](https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/pull/29243#issuecomment-2595222791)
and the initial version is now uploaded to
[pypi](https://pypi.org/project/langchain-naver/).
So we've updated some our documents with the additional changed features
and how to download our partner-managed package.

## **Dependencies:** 

https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/pull/29243#issuecomment-2595222791

---------

Co-authored-by: ccurme <chester.curme@gmail.com>

docs/docs/integrations/providers/naver.mdx, after:

# NAVER

All functionality related to `Naver`, including HyperCLOVA X models, particularly those accessible through `Naver Cloud` [CLOVA Studio](https://clovastudio.ncloud.com/).

> [Naver](https://navercorp.com/) is a global technology company with cutting-edge technologies and a diverse business portfolio including search, commerce, fintech, content, cloud, and AI.

> [Naver Cloud](https://www.navercloudcorp.com/lang/en/) is the cloud computing arm of Naver, a leading cloud service provider offering a comprehensive suite of cloud services to businesses through its [Naver Cloud Platform (NCP)](https://www.ncloud.com/).

Please refer to [NCP User Guide](https://guide.ncloud-docs.com/docs/clovastudio-overview) for more detailed instructions (also in Korean).

## Installation and Setup

- Get a CLOVA Studio API Key by [issuing it](https://api.ncloud-docs.com/docs/ai-naver-clovastudio-summary#API%ED%82%A4) and set it as an environment variable (`CLOVASTUDIO_API_KEY`).


Naver integrations live in two packages:

- `langchain-naver`: a dedicated integration package for Naver.
- `langchain-naver-community`: a community-maintained package and is not officially maintained by Naver or LangChain.

```bash
pip install -U langchain-naver
# pip install -U langchain-naver-community // Install to use Naver Search tool.
```

> **(Note)** Naver integration via `langchain-community`, a collection of [third-party integrations](https://python.langchain.com/docs/concepts/architecture/#langchain-community), is outdated.
> - **Use `langchain-naver` instead as new features should only be implemented via this package**.
> - If you are using `langchain-community` (outdated) and got a legacy API Key (that doesn't start with `nv-*` prefix), you should set it as `NCP_CLOVASTUDIO_API_KEY`, and might need to get an additional API Gateway API Key by [creating your app](https://guide.ncloud-docs.com/docs/en/clovastudio-playground01#create-test-app) and set it as `NCP_APIGW_API_KEY`.

## Chat models

### ChatClovaX 

See a [usage example](/docs/integrations/chat/naver).

```python
from langchain_naver import ChatClovaX
```

## Embedding models

### ClovaXEmbeddings

See a [usage example](/docs/integrations/text_embedding/naver).

```python
from langchain_naver import ClovaXEmbeddings
```

## Tools

### Naver Search

The Naver Search integration allows your LangChain applications to retrieve information from Naver's search engine. This is particularly useful for Korean language queries and getting up-to-date information about Korean topics.

To use the Naver Search tools, you need to:

1. Sign in to the [Naver Developers portal](https://developers.naver.com/main/)
2. Create a new application and enable the Search API
3. Obtain your **NAVER_CLIENT_ID** and **NAVER_CLIENT_SECRET** from the "Application List" section
4. Set these as environment variables in your application

```python
from langchain_naver_community.tool import NaverSearchResults
from langchain_naver_community.utils import NaverSearchAPIWrapper

# Set up the search wrapper
search = NaverSearchAPIWrapper()

# Create a tool
tool = NaverSearchResults(api_wrapper=search)
```

See a [usage example](/docs/integrations/tools/naver_search) for more details.

### Specialized Search Tools

The package also provides specialized search tools for different types of content:

```python
from langchain_naver_community.tool import NaverNewsSearch  # For news articles
from langchain_naver_community.tool import NaverBlogSearch  # For blog posts
from langchain_naver_community.tool import NaverImageSearch  # For images
```

Each of these can be used within LangChain agents to provide more targeted search capabilities.
