docs/docs/integrations/providers/openllm.mdx, before:

# OpenLLM

This page demonstrates how to use [OpenLLM](https://github.com/bentoml/OpenLLM)
with LangChain.

`OpenLLM` is an open platform for operating large language models (LLMs) in
production. It enables developers to easily run inference with any open-source
LLMs, deploy to the cloud or on-premises, and build powerful AI apps.

## Installation and Setup

Install the OpenLLM package via PyPI:

```bash
pip install openllm
```

## LLM

OpenLLM supports a wide range of open-source LLMs as well as serving users' own
fine-tuned LLMs. Use `openllm model` command to see all available models that
are pre-optimized for OpenLLM.

## Wrappers

There is a OpenLLM Wrapper which supports loading LLM in-process or accessing a
remote OpenLLM server:

```python
from langchain_community.llms import OpenLLM
```

### Wrapper for OpenLLM server

This wrapper supports connecting to an OpenLLM server via HTTP or gRPC. The
OpenLLM server can run either locally or on the cloud.

To try it out locally, start an OpenLLM server:

```bash
openllm start flan-t5
```

Wrapper usage:

```python
from langchain_community.llms import OpenLLM

llm = OpenLLM(server_url='http://localhost:3000')

llm("What is the difference between a duck and a goose? And why there are so many Goose in Canada?")
```

### Wrapper for Local Inference

You can also use the OpenLLM wrapper to load LLM in current Python process for
running inference.

```python
from langchain_community.llms import OpenLLM

llm = OpenLLM(model_name="dolly-v2", model_id='databricks/dolly-v2-7b')

llm("What is the difference between a duck and a goose? And why there are so many Goose in Canada?")
```

### Usage

For a more detailed walkthrough of the OpenLLM Wrapper, see the
[example notebook](/docs/integrations/llms/openllm)

Commit message:

chore(community): update to OpenLLM 0.6 (#24609)
Update to OpenLLM 0.6, which we decides to make use of OpenLLM's
OpenAI-compatible endpoint. Thus, OpenLLM will now just become a thin
wrapper around OpenAI wrapper.

Signed-off-by: Aaron Pham <contact@aarnphm.xyz>

---------

Signed-off-by: Aaron Pham <contact@aarnphm.xyz>
Co-authored-by: ccurme <chester.curme@gmail.com>

docs/docs/integrations/providers/openllm.mdx, after:

---
keywords: [openllm]
---

# OpenLLM

OpenLLM lets developers run any **open-source LLMs** as **OpenAI-compatible API** endpoints with **a single command**.

- 🔬 Build for fast and production usages
- 🚂 Support llama3, qwen2, gemma, etc, and many **quantized** versions [full list](https://github.com/bentoml/openllm-models)
- ⛓️ OpenAI-compatible API
- 💬 Built-in ChatGPT like UI
- 🔥 Accelerated LLM decoding with state-of-the-art inference backends
- 🌥️ Ready for enterprise-grade cloud deployment (Kubernetes, Docker and BentoCloud)

## Installation and Setup

Install the OpenLLM package via PyPI:

```bash
pip install openllm
```

## LLM

OpenLLM supports a wide range of open-source LLMs as well as serving users' own
fine-tuned LLMs. Use `openllm model` command to see all available models that
are pre-optimized for OpenLLM.

## Wrappers

There is a OpenLLM Wrapper which supports interacting with running server with OpenLLM:

```python
from langchain_community.llms import OpenLLM
```

### Wrapper for OpenLLM server

This wrapper supports interacting with OpenLLM's OpenAI-compatible endpoint.

To run a model, do:

```bash
openllm hello
```

Wrapper usage:

```python
from langchain_community.llms import OpenLLM

llm = OpenLLM(base_url="http://localhost:3000/v1", api_key="na")

llm("What is the difference between a duck and a goose? And why there are so many Goose in Canada?")
```

### Usage

For a more detailed walkthrough of the OpenLLM Wrapper, see the
[example notebook](/docs/integrations/llms/openllm)
