docs/docs/integrations/providers/pinecone.mdx, before:

---
keywords: [pinecone]
---

# Pinecone

>[Pinecone](https://docs.pinecone.io/docs/overview) is a vector database with broad functionality.


## Installation and Setup

Install the Python SDK:

```bash
pip install langchain-pinecone
```


## Vector store

There exists a wrapper around Pinecone indexes, allowing you to use it as a vectorstore,
whether for semantic search or example selection.

```python
from langchain_pinecone import PineconeVectorStore
```

For a more detailed walkthrough of the Pinecone vectorstore, see [this notebook](/docs/integrations/vectorstores/pinecone)

## Retrievers

### Pinecone Hybrid Search

```bash
pip install pinecone pinecone-text
```

```python
from langchain_community.retrievers import (
    PineconeHybridSearchRetriever,
)
```

For more detailed information, see [this notebook](/docs/integrations/retrievers/pinecone_hybrid_search).


### Self Query retriever

Pinecone vector store can be used as a retriever for self-querying.

For more detailed information, see [this notebook](/docs/integrations/retrievers/self_query/pinecone).

Commit message:

docs: Pinecone Sparse vectorstore example (#31066)
Description: Pinecone SparseVectorStore example
cc @jamescalam

---------

Co-authored-by: James Briggs <35938317+jamescalam@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: ccurme <chester.curme@gmail.com>

docs/docs/integrations/providers/pinecone.mdx, after:

---
keywords: [pinecone]
---

# Pinecone

>[Pinecone](https://docs.pinecone.io/docs/overview) is a vector database with broad functionality.


## Installation and Setup

Install the Python SDK:

```bash
pip install langchain-pinecone
```


## Vector store

There exists a wrapper around Pinecone indexes, allowing you to use it as a vectorstore,
whether for semantic search or example selection.

```python
from langchain_pinecone import PineconeVectorStore
```

For a more detailed walkthrough of the Pinecone vectorstore, see [this notebook](/docs/integrations/vectorstores/pinecone)

### Sparse Vector store

```python
from langchain_pinecone import PineconeSparseVectorStore
```

For a more detailed walkthrough of the Pinecone vectorstore, see [this notebook](/docs/integrations/vectorstores/pinecone_sparse)


## Retrievers

### Pinecone Hybrid Search

```bash
pip install pinecone pinecone-text
```

```python
from langchain_community.retrievers import (
    PineconeHybridSearchRetriever,
)
```

For more detailed information, see [this notebook](/docs/integrations/retrievers/pinecone_hybrid_search).


### Self Query retriever

Pinecone vector store can be used as a retriever for self-querying.

For more detailed information, see [this notebook](/docs/integrations/retrievers/self_query/pinecone).
